# hall-effect-calculator

This is a calculator for the Hall effect experiment, which gives you the theoretical prediction of magnetic Hall effect and the potential across generated by induced charge across a curved circuit.
The calculator mainly contains two programs: `material_db_input.py` and `main_calc.py`. The first one is for adding new material into the database while the latter one will perform the calculation of the signals and draw plots.

## Getting Started

1. To clone the code, first install GitHub and then go to your working dirctory.
2. Type `git clone https://github.com/cytao/hall-effect-calculator`.
3. Press _Enter_ and then a local copy will be created.

## Prerequisities

1. Python (>2.7 ?)
2. PyYAML http://pyyaml.org/wiki/PyYAMLDocumentation
3. NumPy http://www.scipy.org/install.html
4. matplotlib http://matplotlib.org/users/installing.html
5. Blitz-DB https://blitzdb.readthedocs.org/en/latest/installation.html

## Setting up database

First we have to make sure we have all the necessary properties of the material we want to use.
Currently we have _Cu_, _Al_ and _Nb_ in our database.

1. Copy any of the `[MATERIAL]_material_db.yaml` in the folder and rename it with the material you want.
2. Fill out all the information in the file with SI units.
3. Change the path name in `material_db_input.py` (at line 14) to your file name.
4. Execute `python material_db_input.py`.
5. You should see `Input succeeded!` after you successfully add/update your database.
  - If you want update the numbers of an existing entry, simply modify the yaml file and execute the code. The code will delete the old entry automatically.

## Starting Calculation

Once we have the material we need, we can specify the geometry of our circuit to perform the calculation

1. Copy any of the `[MATERIAL]_calc_input.yaml` in the folder and rename it with the material and parameters you have.
2. Fill out all the information in the file with SI units.
  - You can leave the _Experimental\_Setup_->_B\_field_ part blank. If you choose to do so, the default setup would be no external field and unity self-generated-coefficient.
  - You can tune the _Output_->_Current\_Sweep\_Step_. Pick a smaller value for large-resistance/small-current/voltage-limit cases to get a finer result.
3. Change the path name in `main_calc.py` (at line 17) to your file name.
4. Execute `python main_calc.py`.
5. The program will calculate the upper limit of the current for this system and plot signal vs. current for _Room temperature_, _77 K(liquid nitrogen)_ and _Superconducting_ cases if applicable and save the values as `.txt`.
